In this video, we will review the high-level
features of the Python programming language. Python is a powerhouse language. It is by far the most popular programming
language for data science. According to the 2019 Kaggle Data Science
and Machine Learning Survey, 75% of the over 10,000 respondents from around the world reported
that they use Python on a regular basis. Glassdoor reported that in 2019 more than
75% of data science positions listed included Python in their job descriptions. When asked which language an aspiring data
scientist should learn first, most data scientists say Python. You are probably thinking, why on earth is
Python so popular? Well, let’s start with the people who use
Python. If you already know how to program, then Python
is great for you because it uses clear, readable syntax. You can do many of the things you are used
to doing in other programming languages but with Python you can do it with less code. If you want to learn to program, it’s also
a great starter language because of the huge global community and wealth of documentation. In fact, several different surveys in 2019
found that over 80% of data professionals worldwide use Python. Python is useful for many situations, including
data science, AI and machine learning, web development, and IoT devices like the Raspberry
Pi. Large organizations that use Python heavily
include IBM, Wikipedia, Google, Yahoo!, CERN, NASA, Facebook, Amazon, Instagram, Spotify,
and Reddit. Python is a powerful general-purpose programming
language that can do a lot of things. It is widely supported by a global community
and shepherded by the Python Software Foundation. 1. Python is a high-level general-purpose programming
language that can be applied to many different classes of problems. 2. It has a large, standard library that provides
tools suited to many different tasks, including but not limited to databases, automation,
web scraping, text processing, image processing, machine learning, and data analytics. 3. For data science, you can use Python's scientific
computing libraries such as Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib. 4. For artificial intelligence, it has TensorFlow,
PyTorch, Keras, and Scikit-learn. 5. Python can also be used for Natural Language
Processing (NLP) using the Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK). Another great selling point is the Python
community, which has a well documented history of paving the way for diversity and inclusion
efforts in the tech industry as a whole. The Python language has a code of conduct
executed by the Python Software Foundation that seeks to ensure safety and inclusion
for all, in both online and in person python communities. There are also communities like PyLadies that
seek to create spaces for people interested in Python to learn in safe and inclusive environments. PyLadies is an international mentorship group
with a focus on helping more women become active participants and leaders in the Python
open source community.